so we just learned how to use a capo in
the previous lesson but Capo's while
they they were they serve a function
especially for singer songwriters who
really are concentrating only at open
chords they are limiting in a sense
because once they're on you can you no
longer have your open East your open
strings to play on another way of
creating new chord shapes is by using
your first finger on your left hand as a
bar and creating bar shapes the first
shape we'll look at is the e type Barre
chord you'll see what I mean
so watch here's what our bar will look
like our first thing will be laid across
let's say for example the fifth fret I'm
going to give it enough pressure just
that first finger
the closer you get to the threat the
better make sure your thumb is right
behind that bar so you really get
an open feeling from it all okay now
remember how our E major shape had been
second fret second fret of the a string
second fret of the D second fret of the
G we'll watch this if we use a different
fingering for the E major here this will
ease our third finger our fourth finger
and our second finger instead
and we move this shape all the way up
and start on the seventh fret and then
we apply the bar we have the essentially
moved an E major chord up to the fifth
fret which now has a bass note of a
that's the same value as open a major
right there might be like hey well I
want to do this this is more difficult
than a major you guys watch this same
shape right here with your first finger
barred your third finger arch on the
seventh fret fourth finger on the
seventh second finger arch from the six
if you move everything up one fret
keep out same shape now you have a
b-flat major which before we couldn't
play if you move up one more we have a B
major you notice how this works so
anywhere we move the low e-string being
our bass note and having this shape we
have new chords